Version 2 Update (#42)
SigmaHQ/sigma-specification: Sigma_meta_rules.md

group-by: //map
timespan: //str
condition: //map
    gt: //int
    gte: //int
    lt: //int
    lte: //int
    range: //int .. //int
level: //str
aliases: //map
ordered: //boolean
```

### Syntax

**old file**:
A Sigma correlation is a dedicated YAML document located in the same file as the related Sigma rules. Each Sigma rule referred by a correlation contains a field name at the top level that is used as reference identifier. Example:

```yaml
title: Failed Login Attempt
name: failed_login
[...]
```

**Proposition**:
A Sigma correlation is a dedicated YAML document.  
Like sigma rule , correlation rule have a title and a unique id to identify them.

### Components

#### title 

**Attribute:** title

A brief title for the rule that should contain what the rule is supposed to detect (max. 256 characters)

### Rule Identification

**Attributes:** id

Sigma meta-rules should be identified by a globally unique identifier in the *id* attribute.  
For this purpose randomly generated UUIDs (version 4) are recommended but not mandatory.  

An example for this is:

```yml
title: login brute force
id: 0e95725d-7320-415d-80f7-004da920fc11
```

#### action

**Attribute:** action

> must be `correlation`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This field is mandatory and must have the value `correlation`

```yml
title: login brute force
id: 0e95725d-7320-415d-80f7-004da920fc11
action: correlation
```
```

> #### Relative rules

Reviewer: Or something other than `Relative`
```suggestion
#### Related rules
```

**Attribute:** rules

> refers to one or multiple Sigma rules id or correlations (allowing definition of chains of correlations) defining events to be correlated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
refers to one or multiple Sigma or Correlations rules. Allowing the user to chain multiple correlations together
```

```yaml
title: login brute force
id: 0e95725d-7320-415d-80f7-004da920fc11
action: correlation
rules:
    -  5638f7c0-ac70-491d-8465-2a65075e0d86 # ID of the low firewall rule for action: bloc
```

#### Correlation type

**Attribute:** type

Can be :
- event_count
- value_count
- temporal

See [correlation section](#correlation-types) for more details.

> #### Regrouping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Grouping
```

**Attribute:** group-by

optionally defines one or multiple fields which should be treated as separate event occurrence scope. Examples:
  * count events by user

>   * temporal proximity must occur on one system by the same user

Reviewer: The wording is confusing here but I don't have suggestion for now

#### Values Field Name selection

**Attribute:** field

> Use by value_count correlation to define the field name use to count.

Reviewer: Give an example here

#### Time Selection

**Attribute:** timespan

> defines a time period in which the correlation should be applied.  
> Use the format number + letter (in lowercase) : 
> - Xs secunde
> - Xm minute
> - Xh hour
> - Xd days

Reviewer: Give example here too
```suggestion
defines a time period in which the correlation should be applied.  
The following format must be used: `number + letter (in lowercase)` 
- Xs seconds
- Xm minutes
- Xh hours
- Xd days
```

#### Condition Selection

**Attribute:** condition

defines a condition for correlations counting entities see [condition section](#conditions)

#### level

**Attribute:**  level

defines a severity level adjustment if the correlation matches.  
This allows to give single event hits a low or informational severity and increasing this to higher levels in case of correlating appearances of events.

#### aliases

**Attribute:** aliases

defines field name aliases that are applied to correlated Sigma rules.  
The defined aliases can then be defined in `group-by` and allows aggregation across different fields in different event types.

### Correlation Types

The following correlation types are defined.  

> They are referred in the type field of a correlation document.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are referred in the `type` field of a correlation document.  
```
